I need to implement a robust Resolution Independence system to ensure the Play Designer looks perfect on any screen size (Tablet, Desktop, and Mobile) without blurriness.

1. The Layout Architecture (Separation of Concerns) Refactor the main content area into two distinct layers:

Layer A (The Field Wrapper): This contains the Green Grass, Player Circles, and Routes. It WILL scale to fit the screen.

Layer B (The UI Overlay): This contains the 'AI Beta' Interface, Toggle Buttons, and Popups. It WILL NOT scale (it remains 100% size for readability).

Layout: Layer B should be absolutely positioned on top of Layer A, centered.

2. The useResponsiveScale Hook Create a hook that measures the available screen space in the main panel.

Logic: Calculate a scale factor to fit FIELD.WIDTH (694) and FIELD.HEIGHT (392) into the available space, with a 20px safety margin.

Mobile Constraint: Ensure the scale never drops below a readable minimum (e.g., 0.4) to prevent the UI from becoming microscopic.

3. Field Scaling (The CSS Transform)

Apply transform: scale(scale) and transformOrigin: 'top center' to the Field Wrapper.

Crucial Mouse Correction: Update all mouse event handlers (onMouseDown, onDrag). You must divide the mouse coordinates by the scale factor to map the cursor position correctly to the logical field coordinates.

const logicalX = (event.clientX - rect.left) / scale;

4. Text Readability (The Inverse Scale)

Since Player Labels are HTML elements, scaling the field will shrink the text.

Action: In the Player component style, add a 'Counter-Scale' to the text span:

transform: \scale(${1 / scale})``

Result: The player position moves correctly with the zoom, but the text label stays close to its original size, remaining crisp and readable even on smaller screens.

5. Mobile Polish

Set touch-action: none on the Field Canvas to prevent scrolling while dragging players.

Ensure the 'AI Interface' (Layer B) uses max-width: 90% so it doesn't overflow on phone screens.

Please refactor PlayDesigner.tsx and the Player component to implement this Smart Scaling system.